②
My experience of walking is not unique. In her book "Wanderlust – A History of Walking" (2014), Rebecca Solnit describes very similar observations. "Walking, ideally, is a state in which the mind, the body, and the world are aligned, as though they were three characters finally in conversation together, three notes suddenly making a chord." (Solnit, 2014) Also, she quotes a wide range of people who thought about walking in different contexts. For example, Paul Klee in his "Pedagogy Sketchbook" (1925) defines drawing as a spontaneous, liberating act rather than just a way to map reality by comparing it to a walk: "An active line on a walk moving freely, without goal. A walk for a walk’s sake." (Klee, 1925) In his poem "Walking Around" from 1935, Pablo Neruda finds the right tone to capture the melancholy walking can bring. "I stride along with calm, with eyes, with shoes, / with fury, with forgetfulness." (Neruda, 1935) Walking is an everyday experience but can be very different for different kinds of walks and walkers. It is "The most obvious and the most obscure thing in the world, this walking that wanders so readily into religion, philosophy, landscape, urban policy, anatomy, allegory, and heartbreak." (Solnit, 2014) In line with my theory of walking through my brain while walking in the park, Rebecca says "Exploring the world is one of the best ways of exploring the mind, and walking travels both terrains." (Solnit, 2014) She also thinks about the design of places and that our cities don´t seem to be made for walking anymore, more likely for cars. "Meanwhile, in many new places, public space isn’t even in the design: what was once public space is designed to accommodate the privacy of automobiles; malls replace main streets; streets have no sidewalks; buildings are entered through their garages; city halls have no plazas; and everything has walls, bars, gates." (Solnit, 2014)
This is something disturbing for the walking person. I would not like walking so much, if I had to walk next to big, noisy streets. I like walking in small streets and large parks and forests and am happy to be blessed with some. Walking gives us something, no other way of travelling ever could... "Or perhaps walking should be called movement, not travel, for one can walk in circles or travel around the world immobilized in a seat, and a certain kind of wanderlust can only be assuaged by the acts of the body itself in motion, not the motion of the car, boat, or plane. It is the movement as well as the sights going by that seems to make things happen in the mind, and this is what makes walking ambiguous and endlessly fertile: it is both means and end, travel and destination." The pace is the special thing about walking; it perfectly fits our current state of mind and body. There is a limit we cannot force, an honest reflection of our possibilities. "I like walking because it is slow, and I suspect that the mind, like the feet, works at about three miles an hour. If this is so, then modern life is moving faster than the speed of thought, or thoughtfulness." (Rebecca Solnit, 2014) 