④
Live fast, die young. This motto has been around since the 1950s. However, the interpretation and meaning of the phrase have changed. It used to mean dying in your 20s due to an excessive lifestyle and drug use. Today, it's more often interpreted as meaning that a person can remain physically and mentally young even in old age, feeling young until death, through an active, healthy lifestyle. What does "fast" even mean?
According to Albert Einstein's theory of relativity, one ages more slowly when moving very fast – however, even flying at 800 km/h is negligible in this context. Astronauts on the ISS, due to their high speed of approximately 27,000 km/h, age slightly more slowly than people on Earth.
So, simply moving quickly in everyday life doesn't necessarily keep you young, you would have to be an astronaut. Perhaps one could say that sport keeps you young because it keeps you fit and active, and many sports involve fast movements. But that's not what the saying "Live fast, die young" means. So do we live fast to save time? To experience as many things as possible in as little time as possible? But that´s not smart in the long term, and that describes the fundamental dilemma; do the things now because you don´t know what tomorrow will bring or take care of yourself today for maybe enjoying a longer life and still being alive tomorrow. If you ask the workers in the delivery zone why they're in such a hurry, they'll say they'd lose their jobs otherwise. The reason for their haste is also part of the capitalist system. If we ask the race car drivers, they'll say they enjoy driving fast, and presumably, it's the risk, the thrill, and above all, the fun that draws them in. The origins of the motto "live fast, die young" mean preferring to live a short, exciting life rather than having to endure a long working life within the system. Under constant stress and the constant need to hurry, people age faster. Would we live longer if we lived a slow life, like tortoises that live to be 200 years old? And what is better anyway: a long life or an active life?
